Add ver-1dc (#170)
idaholab/TMAP8: doc/content/verification_and_validation/ver-1dc.md

# ver-1dc

> # Permeation Problem with Trapping

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Permeation Problem with Multiple Trapping
```

## Test Description

> This verification problem is taken from [!cite](ambrosek2008verification) and builds on the capabilities verified in [ver-1d](ver-1d.md) for a breakthrough problem where diffusion and trapping are the rate limiting processes. This case is simulated in [/ver-1dc.i].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This verification problem is taken from [!cite](ambrosek2008verification) and builds on the capabilities verified in [ver-1d](ver-1d.md). However, in the current case, there are three different types of traps. This case is simulated in [/ver-1dc.i].
```

> This problem models permeation through a membrane with a constant source in which three traps are operative. We solve the following equations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This problem models permeation through a membrane with a constant source in which three trap populations are present. We solve the following equations
```

\begin{equation}
    \label{eqn:diffusion_mobile}
    \frac{dC_M}{dt} = - \nabla D \nabla C_M - \text{trap\_per\_free} \cdot \sum_{i=1}^{3} \frac{dC_{T_i}}{dt} ,
\end{equation}

> \begin{equation}

Reviewer: with, for $i=1$, $i=2$, and $i=3$:

    \label{eqn:trapped_rate}
    \frac{dC_{T_i}}{dt} = \alpha_t^i  \frac {C_{T_i}^{empty} C_M } {(N \cdot \text{trap\_per\_free})} - \alpha_r^i C_{T_i},
\end{equation}
and
\begin{equation}
    C_{T_i}^{empty} = (C_{{T_i}0} \cdot N - \text{trap\_per\_free} \cdot C_{T_i}  ) ,
\end{equation}

> where $C_M$ is the concentrations of the mobile, $C_{T_i}$ is the trapped species in trap $i$, $D$ is the diffusivity of the mobile species, $\alpha_t^i$ and $\alpha_r^i$ are the trapping and release rate coefficients for trap $i$, $\text{trap\_per\_free}$ is a factor converting the magnitude of $C_{T_i}$ to be closer to $C_M$ for better numerical convergence, $C_{{T_i}0}$ is the fraction of host sites $i$ that can contribute to trapping, $C_{T_i}^{empty}$ is the concentration of empty trapping sites, and $N$ is the host density.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
where $C_M$ is the concentrations of the mobile, $C_{T_i}$ is the trapped species in trap $i$, $D$ is the diffusivity of the mobile species, $\alpha_t^i$ and $\alpha_r^i$ are the trapping and release rate coefficients for trap $i$, $\text{trap\_per\_free}$ is a factor scaling $C_{T_i}$ to be closer to $C_M$ for better numerical convergence, $C_{{T_i}0}$ is the fraction of host sites $i$ that can contribute to trapping, $C_{T_i}^{empty}$ is the concentration of empty trapping sites, and $N$ is the host density.
```

The breakthrough time is defined by
\begin{equation}
  \label{eqn:zeta}

>     \zeta = \frac{\lambda^2 \nu}{\rho D_o} exp \left( \frac{E_d - \epsilon}{kT} \right) + \frac{c}{\rho}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    \zeta = \frac{\lambda^2 \nu}{\rho D_o} exp \left( \frac{E_d - \epsilon}{kT} \right) + \frac{c}{\rho},
```

\end{equation}

where

$\lambda$ = lattice parameter

$\nu$ = Debye frequency ($\approx$ $10^{13} \; s^{-1}$)

$\rho$ = trapping site fraction

$D_o$ = diffusivity pre-exponential

$E_d$ = diffusion activation energy

$\epsilon$ = trap energy

$k$ = Boltzmann's constant

$T$ = temperature

> $c$ = dissolved gas atom fraction

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and $c$ = dissolved gas atom fraction.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
!alert note title=TMAP8 can accommodate an arbitrary number of trapping populations
This verification case was first introduced in [!cite](ambrosek2008verification) to highlight TMAP7's capability to model up to three different trapping populations, when TMAP4 was limited to one [!citep](longhurst1992verification). However, TMAP8 can accommodate an arbitrary number of trapping populations.

```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Three traps that are relatively weak are assumed to be active in a slab. The trapping site fraction of the three traps are 0.1, 0.15 and 0.20, respectively. The values of $\epsilon/k$ for the three traps are 100 K, 500 K, and 800 K, respectively. Other parameters are the same as the trap in the effective diffusivity limit in [ver-1d](ver-1d.md).

```

> ## Analytical soultion

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Analytical solution
```

[!cite](ambrosek2008verification) provides the analytical equations for the permeation transient as

\begin{equation}
\label{eqn:Jp}
    J_p = \frac{c_o D}{l} \Bigg\{ 1 + 2 \sum_{m=1}^{\infty} \left[ (-1)^m \exp \left( -m^2 \frac{t}{2 \; \tau_{b_e}} \right) \right] \Bigg\},
\end{equation}
where $c_o$ is the steady dissolved gas concentration at the upstream (x = 0) side, $l$ is the thickness of the slab, $D$ is the diffusivity of the gas through the material, and $\tau_{b_e}$, the breakthrough time, is defined as

\begin{equation}
\label{eqn:tau_be}
    \tau_{b_e} = \frac{l^2}{2 \; \pi^2 \; D_{eff}},
\end{equation}
where $D_{eff}$, the effective diffusivity, is defined as

\begin{equation}
\label{eqn:Deff}
    D_{eff} = \frac{D}{1 + \sum_{i=1}^3 \frac{1}{\zeta_i}},
\end{equation}
where $\zeta_i$ is the trapping parameter of trap $i$.

> Three traps that are relatively weak are assumed to be active in a slab. The trapping site fraction of the three traps are 0.1, 0.15 and 0.20, respectively. The values of $\epsilon/k$ for the three traps are 100 K, 500 K, and 800 K, respectively. Other parameters are the same as the trap in the effective diffusivity limit in [ver-1d](ver-1d.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Results and comparison against analytical solution

> The trapping parameters, $\zeta_i$, for the three traps are 91.47930 $c/\rho$, 61.65009 $c/\rho$, 45.93069 $c/\rho$.

Reviewer: How does that compare to expected values? Is that derived directly from the equations above? In that case, it should be part of the analytical solution section. If it is a prediction from TMAP8, it should be compared to analytical predictions (and calculated in the python script).

!alert warning title=Typo in [!cite](ambrosek2008verification)

> The $\zeta_i$ of the three traps from [!cite](ambrosek2008verification) have a typographical error, but it won't impact the final analytical solution.

Reviewer: Please be more specific about what the error is.

> !alert warning title=Typo in [!cite](ambrosek2008verification)
> The $\zeta_i$ of the three traps from [!cite](ambrosek2008verification) have a typographical error, but it won't impact the final analytical solution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
!alert warning title=Typo in [!cite](ambrosek2008verification)
The $\zeta_i$ of the three traps from [!cite](ambrosek2008verification) have a typographical error, but it dos not impact the final analytical solution.
```

> The permeation transient from analytical solution is compared with TMAP8 results in [ver-1dc_comparison_diffusion]. The graphs for the theoretical flux and the calculated flux are in good agreement, with root mean square percentage errors (RMSPE) of RMSPE = 0.41 % when time $t \geq 3$ s . TMAP8 can now model an arbitrary number of trapping population, unlike TMAP4 and TMAP7, which were limited to 1 and 3, respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The analytical solution for the permeation transient is compared with TMAP8 results in [ver-1dc_comparison_diffusion]. The graphs for the theoretical flux and the calculated flux are in good agreement, with root mean square percentage errors (RMSPE) of RMSPE = 0.41 % when time $t \geq 3$ s.
```

!media comparison_ver-1dc.py
       image_name=ver-1dc_comparison_diffusion.png
       style=width:50%;margin-bottom:2%;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto
       id=ver-1dc_comparison_diffusion
       caption=Comparison of TMAP8 calculation with the analytical solution for the permeation transient from [!cite](ambrosek2008verification).

## Input files

> The input file for this case can be found at [/ver-1dc.i].

Reviewer: Just like in other cases, please explain how the input file is updated in the `test` file to run fast as a verification test by reducing mesh size and number of time steps.

Three traps that are relatively weak are assumed to be active in a slab. The trapping site fraction of the three traps are 0.1, 0.15 and 0.20, respectively. The values of $\epsilon/k$ for the three traps are 100 K, 500 K, and 800 K, respectively. Other parameters are the same as the trap in the effective diffusivity limit in [ver-1d](ver-1d.md).

## Analytical solution

[!cite](ambrosek2008verification) provides the analytical equations for the permeation transient as

\begin{equation}
\label{eqn:Jp}
    J_p = \frac{c_o D}{l} \Bigg\{ 1 + 2 \sum_{m=1}^{\infty} \left[ (-1)^m \exp \left( -m^2 \frac{t}{2 \; \tau_{b_e}} \right) \right] \Bigg\},
\end{equation}
where $c_o$ is the steady dissolved gas concentration at the upstream (x = 0) side, $l$ is the thickness of the slab, $D$ is the diffusivity of the gas through the material, and $\tau_{b_e}$, the breakthrough time, is defined as

\begin{equation}
\label{eqn:tau_be}
    \tau_{b_e} = \frac{l^2}{2 \; \pi^2 \; D_{eff}},
\end{equation}
where $D_{eff}$, the effective diffusivity, is defined as

\begin{equation}
\label{eqn:Deff}

>     D_{eff} = \frac{D}{1 + \sum_{i=1}^3 \frac{1}{\zeta_i}},

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    D_{eff} = \frac{D}{1 + \sum_{i=1}^3 1 / \zeta_i},
```
Otherwise it appears too small in the documentation.

\end{equation}
where $\zeta_i$ is the trapping parameter of trap $i$. The trapping parameters, $\zeta_i$, calculated from [eqn:zeta] for the three traps are 91.47930 $c/\rho$, 61.65009 $c/\rho$, 45.93069 $c/\rho$.

> !alert warning title=Typo in [!cite](ambrosek2008verification)
> The $\zeta_i$ of the three traps from [!cite](ambrosek2008verification) have a typographical error with three orders of magnitude lower than correct one, but it dos not impact the final analytical solution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
!alert warning title=Typo in [!cite](ambrosek2008verification)
The $\zeta_i$ values of the three traps from [!cite](ambrosek2008verification) have a typographical error: They are three orders of magnitude lower than the correct values. however, it dos not impact the final analytical solution.
```

\label{eqn:Deff}
    D_{eff} = \frac{D}{1 + \sum_{i=1}^3 \frac{1}{\zeta_i}},
\end{equation}

> where $\zeta_i$ is the trapping parameter of trap $i$. The trapping parameters, $\zeta_i$, for the three traps are 91.47930 $c/\rho$, 61.65009 $c/\rho$, 45.93069 $c/\rho$.

Reviewer: Please cross reference the equation you used to calculate them.
